Devices like computers, smartphones, and
tablets all have operating systems.
If you've used a desktop or
laptop computer,
you may have used the Windows or
MacOs operating systems. Smartphones and
tablets run on mobile operating
systems like Android and iOS.
Another popular operating system is Linux.
Linux is used in the security industry,
and as a security professional, it's likely
that you'll interact with the Linux OS.
So what exactly is an operating system?
It's the interface between
the computer hardware and the user.
The operating system, or the OS as it's
commonly called, is responsible for
making the computer run as efficiently as
possible while also making it easy to use.
Hardware may be another new term.
Hardware refers to the physical
components of a computer.
The OS interface that we now rely on
every day is something that early
computers didn't have.
In the 1950s the biggest challenge with
early computers was the amount of time
it took to run a computer program. At
the time, computers could not run multiple
programs simultaneously.
Instead, people had to wait for
a program to finish running,
reset the computer, and
load up the new program.
Imagine having to turn
your computer on and
off each time you had to
open a new application!
It would take a long time to complete
a simple task like sending an email.
Since then,
operating systems have evolved, and
we no longer have to worry
about wasting time in this way.
Thanks to operating systems and
their evolution,
today's computers run efficiently.
They run multiple applications at once, and
they also access external devices
like printers, keyboards, and mice.
Another reason why operating systems
are important is that they help humans and
computers communicate with each other.
Computers communicate in a language called
binary, which consists of 0s and 1s.
The OS provides an interface to bridge
this communication gap between the user
and the computer, allowing you to interact
with the computer in complex ways.
Operating systems are critical for
the use of computers. Likewise,
OS security is also critical for
the security of a computer.
This involves securing files,
data access, and user authentication to
help protect and prevent against threats
such as viruses, worms, and malware.
Knowing how operating
systems work is essential for
completing different
security related tasks.
For example, as a security analyst,
you may be responsible for configuring and
maintaining the security of
a system by managing access.
You may also be responsible for
managing and configuring firewalls,
setting security policies,
enabling virus protection, and
performing auditing, accounting, and
logging to detect unusual behavior.
All these tasks require a deep
understanding of operating systems, and
as we continue this course, we'll explore
operating systems in greater detail.